picture this the year is 2102 you're
sitting down to play some video games
when boom suddenly a radioactive bat
appears outside your house and the worst
part the radiation made your computer
blue screen right in the middle of a
raid with all of your friends well fear
not because Fallout 76 sponsored this
video to find a solution and we spent
their money on a pallet of lead to build
the radiation Pro gaming PC really Alex
yes and the best part you can play
Fallout 76 for free until October
29th did that actually tick just now
yeah there's background radiation good
[Music]
[Applause]
timing radiation surrounds us at all
times and for the most part that is
totally fine in simple terms radiation
is Just Energy being moved from one
place to another waves or particles like
light from the Sun or the Wi-Fi in your
house where problems start occurring is
when the energy increases enough to
become ionizing radiation knocking
electrons out of an atom or molecule in
a video game say Fallout 76 that could
cause a beneficial mutation but in the
real world it's far more likely to cause
cell damage or cancer and if that
electron happens to be inside your RAM
or your CPU it can cause a bit to flip
turning what should have been a zero
into a one or vice versa in 2024 there
aren't too many places where you can go
that the levels of background radiation
are in immediate danger but ever since
the nuclear apocalypse on October 23rd
2077 The Fallout Universe has been
regularly experiencing unsafe levels of
radiation and it gets worse given that
the goal of Fallout 76 is to Nuke a
radioactive bat keeping ourselves
protected while we do that is key now
for players there's a lot of options
rataway radex and even vegetable soup
but for their precious gaming PCs
there's sadly nothing to demonstrate
what might happen in this situation
we'll be using our Luma field CT scanner
which is capable of yeting enough
ionizing radiation to see through steel
it is entirely possible to kill
Electronics if you leave them in there
long enough and if you put running
Electronics in here they'll become
pretty unhappy pretty quickly allow me
to demonstrate
gerer
counter
PC one
sec I assume that noise is bad yeah
let's see what we can do about that the
first and easiest thing to do to
increase your computer stability is to
Simply accept that sometimes poo happens
and account for it for Mission critical
uses like scientific Computing Financial
systems or data centers they use
registered ECC memory which doesn't just
send the data from your CPU to your RAM
and vice versa but also extra bits that
can be used to validate that data a
super simple example could be if you
wanted to make sure that your two twos
arrived in one piece you could instead
send two two 4 and then also tell the
computer to make sure that 2 + 2 equals
4 if something goes wrong and you got a
two and a three you'd know because it
would equal five in practice ECC
algorithms are much more complex but
they're beyond the scope of this video
if you want to learn more Derek from
veritasium has a great explanation in
his recent video on QR codes in ddr5
there is some inherent error correction
which some memory vendors will mislabel
as on die ECC this isn't true ECC and
you can see that the real stuff has
extra chips four for storing data and
another for error correcting but buffer
DCC has a different key and cannot be
placed in consumer motherboards
unfortunately we don't have any
unbuffered ECC here today but
realistically in the radioactive
Wasteland of Appalachia just correcting
the occasional bit flip wasn't going to
cut it anyway we need to stop it
happening in the first place and you
don't need birth control when you're
wearing eight condoms bring in the
lead did you write that or did I
I wrote that okay cuz I don't remember
approving that in the script but that's
very funny here we have spent $1,000 of
bethesda's money on 300 lb of lead then
$600 on shipping that lead and then $800
on a safety consultant we gave us this
nice booklet on what you need to know to
not get harmed by aformentioned lead am
I supposed to have read it uh this page
that I marked is the only important one
good Lord this is a classic case of the
cure being worse than the disease you do
not want to mess around with this stuff
man this is freaking heavy oh where the
heck do you even buy 300 lbs of lead
metal supplier just call them up ask for
it that's about it which is kind of
crazy to me because this stuff is way
more dangerous than some of the things
that chemical suppliers do restrict
access to you have a business address
you can get basically anything you want
they'll just send it to you I did not
know that anyway we need to make sure we
don't touch it lead is a poisonous
neurotoxin that has no no safe exposure
level whatsoever it also gets absorbed
into your bones and stays in there for
decades with a halflife of 46 years
meaning that people that were alive in
the 70s before leg gas and paint were
banned are still actively receiving lead
poisoning from their own bodies
explaining
Congress lead poisoning can lead to
learning difficulties irritability mood
disorders poor memory loss of sex drive
infertility and many other bad things
lead use was also estimated to have
decreased the IQ of the average American
by Four Points while its use was still
common place that was a difficult torch
for the new generation to carry but
somehow they managed it fun fact by the
way going to an indoor shooting range
even just once or twice a month can
expose you to enough lead dust to cause
problems so what you're supposed to do
is put on those gloves and then these
gloves those ones are doing the
protection these are for cut protection
so that the lead doesn't like cut you oh
sure okay should we in the
bay n probably not the worst thing that
we can do is stir up dust which is why
we're not in there where the air flow is
really good dude this is
hilarious yeah the Safety Committee kept
on trying to get us to do other things
but it's just way too funny to have to
do all of
this you know I didn't see anything in
the work safe handling stuff about just
it being fraking heavy wow it's got a
cool bluish Hue to it yeah
I've never um done
this the thing that you need to be
careful of is the lead oxide so if you
look if you do that oh yeah there is now
lead on my finger this is totally fine
as long as I don't now lick my finger or
go for a smoke or anything of that sort
can you pick your
nose I wouldn't recommend it
theoretically lead is highly malleable
and should therefore be pretty easy to
oh wow it is that's really easy
[Music]
yeah okay H is that enough to start I
imagine do you want to explain these
tools to us professional this is a
leather punch we can't be drilling into
the lead because that creates dust which
is bad so we're going to try and use
this leather punch to make holes in it I
think it's going to be difficult and
annoying we're going to cut the lead yes
by just punching holes in it there are
other plans we can like put spikes
through
it but this if it works will be the
easiest so we'll probably want like a/4
in maybe a little bit more of overlap on
each side okay we'll kind of take the
pieces of lead and like overlap them and
then tape them we'll tape them yeah
we'll tape them do we have lead tape we
have aluminum tape but that's why you
overlap it
okay okay wait oh so I don't have to use
the stupid leather punch we have Snips
we have snips Alex well but we still
need to put holes in it I thought you
wanted me to perforate the thing and
then just like bend it I was like this
is the stupidest plan ever okay there
okay fine no so we're going to metal
yeah no it makes way more sense but
we're going to use some bolts to attach
it to this sure fine yeah no that's fine
just wear the leather yeah yeah no I get
it I get it now I thought you wanted me
to cut it with that that would be awful
yeah I know it would be really bad oh
wow dude this is somewhat easy it's like
cutting
plastic heavy heavy plastic that is one
ragged ass line but
uh
progress
okay ow oh did you cut yourself uh no
but that does seem like a concern I have
no idea if this Splinter could penetrate
anything cuz it's so soft but um if it
does I guess that's bad
dude it's so
heavy but that's a feature not a bug
lead's density is what makes it so
effective at blocking radiation
effectively nothing can get through it
so making our system radiation proof is
just putting a whole lot of mass between
the source of the radiation and our
sensitive
components definitely need to Mark out
some lines and do a cleaner cut but
that'll be easier now that I don't have
to contend with the entire roll of lead
as I'm trying to snip through
it
okay I think the key is just being
willing to bend the crap out of it while
you're cutting it and then bend it back
when you're done cuz it's really not
hard
just boom flat trying to line these up
pretty much perfect here because while
good enough would be good enough to
protect the
computer it's not going to help us get
the actual bolts through so I want these
to be very very well lined up okay
there's your first lead plate wow that's
heavy like I know in my head that it's
heavy but like wow that's really heavy
it's like the gold controller yeah like
cognitively I understand that there's
different densities of materials but
damn like is it a problem that we're
going to have just like steel bolts and
we're going to have small holes in our
plating probably there we go oh this is
the outer plate okay that makes sense
come on yes go
yes with this
overlap what's your plan when the side
panel overlaps and the top panel
overlaps we'll just do like overlap
overlap overlap overlap just stack them
on top of each other and probably just
whack it with a hammer and add some
aluminum tape I don't think that's going
to be as easy as you think that is I
don't think it's going to be easy
oh well okay then we're on the same
page how is this so far off dude it's
not aligned at all okay yeah well that's
actually good news the fact that this
isn't wide enough means that our two
tall side panels will fold over very
nicely yeah so we can just put it over
top that's easy yeah no
problem done our incompetence worked out
for a change sometimes you can air or
stack in the correct
direction hear me out strategic
overlapping we take this top piece off
Yeah we actually cut it flush to the
front yeah we do the side panels next
and it like wraps then we do the front
panel huge and it wraps around the side
panels and around the overlapped
top and we use the bendiness and then
for the
back we basically just cut little AR
armor pieces for all the parts we don't
need access to and glue them
on
sure double-sided tape okay that last
part was where I was testing to see if
he was just going along with everything
I was saying cuz that's terrible so tell
me something yeah should I just go for
it sure okay I'm going to shape this
then do I want a whacker a yeah we need
a
whacker with the two sides it's kind of
coming together like visually right
dude actually making the PC out of lead
may be the best way to make it look like
it's from The Fallout Universe yeah we
probably should have bolted it before we
whacked it mhm
shoot Alex Andrew called it uh she's not
going to go deep enough not quite now
under normal circumstances I would just
take my side panel put a new hole in it
that's closer to the edge but being
contaminated and not being able to touch
any of our stuff is pretty freaking Inc
convenient right about now question for
you can we just take a nail and our
contaminated hammer and just send a hole
through this thing probably yeah okay
why don't we just do that then
contaminate One Nail instead of our
drill and drill bits and yeah
okay okay memes aside though are we
expecting this to work like do we know
you know how much radiation can slip
through a small Gap obviously this armor
is not going to be perfect every single
time that a radioactive particle hits
your PC or yourself there is a chance
that something bad happens and so by
doing this we might not 100% eliminate
the chances of something bad
happening but it's going to be way lower
like think of all the areas where
theoretically a particle could come
through yeah it's basically not this is
one of those projects man where like
you're in the planning stages and you're
just like
I don't know is this just really dumb
and we shouldn't do it or is this really
done and we should totally do
it this is definitely the
ladder okay so what did you say the side
panel has to go on before the top panel
right right whoa jeez I almost lost
control of it as it was coming down okay
did I get it oh dude she's latched
nice easy
so we'll Bend this back and then we'll
bend it one more final time
after okay so we'll fold these over on
the front we fold question for you
yes the bomb's not going to go off under
the computer do we need armor on the
bottom or could we have some ventilation
are you determined to kill this thing I
guess we could just attach a fan on the
bottom that would probably help it A a
lot a
lot all right it's basically done it
needs a little bit of finishing work to
look more complete and together but we
can do that on Tuesday after it's not
the
weekend I might have missed out on some
of the finishing touches here but oh oh
it's heavy I guess I get to do the big
moment have we weighed yet we have not
we did a weigh but I have done some
trimming and
stuff dude she's
thonk look at her
go like damn all
right good god I've gained weight I'm
174 lbs and I guess I
probably uh shouldn't touch the lead
actually let's uh I mean a little bit of
lead is good for you right no it's like
iron a little bit of iron in your diet a
little bit of lead in your diet little
bit of iron great a little bit of lead
oh goodness your Dy it get it lead in
your dye it okay it's F I got it I got
it I can do it I can do it I've got this
I've got this okay I'm just going to get
it to the edge of the
table okay what what did I say that was
174 oh my God I'm at 150 now I still
have my other foot on the ground just
put it on the scale here we go here we
go oh my God
2642 please don't drop it no no I got
it's rolling away I
got wo that was 90 lb dead on wasn't it
wow is this even safe to put in the Luma
field I don't know they still haven't
gotten back to me with a maximum allowed
on that well they should have thought of
that before they sent us a Luma field
all right here we we go oh do you want
to play games on it or throw it in there
first oh we got to play games on it yeah
we've got to play we got to prove it's a
working computer yeah okay also there is
a guer counter in it right now that is
on okay I haven't heard it in a long
time I I should think not any brilliant
ideas for how to turn it on oh my
God a nail really yes I mean it's better
than what we had for the PCS in the back
of my van which was just nothing can
really feel the lead you know like it's
got that lead feel like the Ley goodness
okay
ready boom oh it works perfect dude it
actually works really well no it
actually works perfect why are you not
working still I may be able to reach the
onboard HDMI
Alex which on board really helpful from
a troubleshooting standpoint I just
can't get any pressure on it oh I got it
okay okay so the HDMI is in oh thank
goodness that HDMI port was right there
if it was anywhere other than right at
the bottom of the iio I wa why did we go
on to the BIOS and not
windows I don't
know oh God oh God where's your boot
devices there's no storage Alex oh there
was something remember Alex
yes the nvme carrier wasn't in quite
right and I thought it was
fixed but maybe it is not well it
clearly is
not
well I guess this is getting finished
[Music]
tomorrow here it is Big Moment does it
still game I couldn't help noticing that
it's running great now yeah but um is
there any air in or out there's a tiny
bit of air that's getting in the bottom
but who cares we have a reserator all
the Heat's coming out of here well all
it has to do is run the
game oh before we do that I did scan it
in the Luma field do you want to take a
look I
do hello Mr camera uh I'm very sorry
about this
there's the
picture oh so it worked yeah you can see
this little bit here where it didn't
quite hit it the rest is the computer
Flawless Victory then yeah nice let's
see if the computer still works or
realistically more like if it ever
worked I think its problems are nothing
to do with radiation exposure and
everything to do with the fact that it
is in a sealed container yeah do we tell
them that we had to take it apart and
put it back together cuz the pcie
bracket fell out no okay I guess we did
let's see how the game runs on our
machine wow CPU GPU temps not
bad give me all your stuff hey get me
that rad X hey get go on go on get go go
go on get pilgrim how much more do we
need to play to prove that this system
actually totally kicks ass we're not
getting a ton of FPS but that's our
older GPU right like our CPU is at
52 and our GPU is at 43 and if a
nuclear bomb goes off it'll be fine it
totally will unironically survive as
long as it isn't in the blast radius
yeah we should mention that if you are
skill challenged like lonus you can join
up with your friends so maybe one of
them is good at the game I'll Dodge you
I'll Dodge you oh yeah and while you do
that I'll talk about the playable
character that's a ghoul we probably
could have worked that in a bit better
whatever look at this computer the
ultimate Fallout 76 PC you've outdone
yourself
Alex
I've really done myself on this one this
was so much work oh my God it was awful
it was terrible work but it has the
world's greatest power button yep if you
enjoyed this video because you love
seeing me and Alex have things go
according to plan you might enjoy the
one where we tried to repair eight dead
motherboards that we bought on
eBay it was fun it was fun